Updates on deployments: (#309)
rancher-sandbox/docs.rancherdesktop.io: docs/getting-started/generating-deployment-profiles.md

free to use all lower-case, UPPER-CASE, or spOnGeBoBCasE.

## Generating deployments

The easiest way to do this is on a system already running Rancher Desktop, mainly for its
`rdctl` command-line tool, and the default list of settings.

First, you're going to want to verify that the deployments you create make sense on a
working Rancher Desktop, so the rest of this document assumes you'll have access to it.
Rancher Desktop runs on air-gapped systems, so if you're creating deployments for
security-related reasons, security shouldn't be a concern while creating them.

We also assume you've installed the `jq` json tool. If you have a preferred variant, simply
substitute it for `jq` in the following text.

### Crafting JSON deployment files

Let's assume you want to create both default-value and locked-value deployment profiles.

If you want to start with Rancher Desktop's default values, and don't have your own
workloads you need to preserve, you can run `rdctl factory-reset` first.

Start up Rancher Desktop, and run the following commands in your preferred shell:

```
rdctl list-settings | jq . > working-defaults.txt
rdctl list-settings | jq . > working-locked.txt
```

> If you're only making one type of profile, you'll only need one of the above lines, of course.
> It also doesn't make sense to create both a user and system profile for the same type of
> deployment. If Rancher Desktop sees a system-profile, it won't load the user-profile of the same kind.
> However, if Rancher Desktop finds, for example, a user-defaults and a system-locked profile, but no
> system-defaults profile, it will load the user-defaults and system-locked profiles.
> 
> Next, you can edit each of the JSON files to contain only the values you care about. You can
> use the `jq` command to validate the final outputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're only making one type of profile, you'll only need one of the above lines, of course.
It also is not necessary to create both a user and system profile for the same type of deployment. If Rancher Desktop sees a system-profile, it won't load the user-profile of the same kind. However, if Rancher Desktop finds, for example, a user-defaults and a system-locked profile, but no system-defaults profile, it will load the user-defaults and system-locked profiles.

Next, you can edit each of the JSON files to contain only the values you care about. You can use the `jq` command to validate the final outputs:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

jq  -e . working-defaults.txt >/dev/null 2>&1
```

The command will have a 0 status if the file is valid (`True` on Powershell), 1 or `False` otherwise.

Here's a sample locked-field JSON file:

```json
{
  "containerEngine": {
    "allowedImages": {
      "enabled": true,
      "patterns": [
        "PATTERN1",
        "PATTERN2"
      ]
    },
    "name": "moby"
  },
  "kubernetes": {
    "version": "1.24.10"
  }
}
```

> Users with this locked file will be able to use only `moby`, not `containerd`, and will only be able to pull
> container images that match the supplied patterns. They will also be constrained to using the specified kubernetes version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution Warning
Users with this locked file will be able to use only `moby`, not `containerd`, and will only be able to pull container images that match the supplied patterns. They will also be constrained to using the specified kubernetes version.
:::
```

> If you're on a Linux system, you can quickly test these files with the following steps:
> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're on a Linux system, you can quickly test these files with the following steps:

```bash
```

# Shut down Rancher Desktop
rdctl factory-reset
cp working-defaults.txt ~/.config/rancher-desktop.defaults.json
cp working-locked.txt ~/.config/rancher-desktop.locked.json
```

> Now bring up Rancher Desktop, and bring up the Preferences window. Verify that the fields you entered
> in the `locked` file have the specified values, appear with a padlock icon in the UI, and can't be
> changed. Verify that the fields from the `defaults` value appear with the specified values in the UI,
> and can be changed (as expected, if a field appears in both the `defaults` and `locked` deployment
> profile, the `locked` value takes precedence).
> 
> ### Targeting other systems
> 
> If all your users are on Linux systems, you're done, but if not, the rest is straightforward.
> `rdctl` can take a JSON file and generate a deployment for either macOS or Windows. Now Windows
> uses the registry, so we generate *registry import files*, and you can then use the `reg` command
> in a terminal to install them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now bring up Rancher Desktop, and bring up the `Preferences` window. Verify that the fields you entered in the `locked` file have the specified values, appear with a padlock icon in the UI, and can't be changed. Verify that the fields from the `defaults` value appear with the specified values in the UI,
and can be changed (as expected, if a field appears in both the `defaults` and `locked` deployment profile, the `locked` value takes precedence).

### Targeting other systems

If all your users are on Linux systems, you're done, but if not, the rest is straightforward.
`rdctl` can take a JSON file and generate a deployment for either macOS or Windows. Windows uses the registry, so we generate *registry import files*, and you can then use the `reg` command in a terminal to install them.
```

#### macOS

For macOS, you would run the following commands to generate either system or user deployment files:

```bash
rdctl create-profile --output plist --input working-defaults.txt > io.rancherdesktop.profile.defaults.plist
rdctl create-profile --output plist --input working-locked.txt > io.rancherdesktop.profile.locked.plist
```

And the `io.*.plist` files just need to be deployed to the users' systems, as described above.

#### Windows

> Windows differs from the other platforms - for `Linux` and `macOS`. Here you specify the type of profile
> ("locked" or "defaults") and hive (`HKLM` or `HKCU`) on the command-line, and let the `run.exe` command
> decide which part of the registry to update:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Windows differs from the other platforms. Here you specify the type of profile ("locked" or "defaults") and hive (`HKLM` or `HKCU`) on the command-line, and let the `run.exe` command decide which part of the registry to update:
```

```bash
rdctl create-profile --output reg --hive hklm --type defaults working-defaults.txt > reg-system-defaults.txt
rdctl create-profile --output reg --hive hkcu --type defaults working-defaults.txt > reg-user-defaults.txt
rdctl create-profile --output reg --hive hklm --type locked working-locked.txt > reg-system-locked.txt
rdctl create-profile --output reg --hive hkcu --type locked working-locked.txt > reg-user-locked.txt
```

> The above commands generate four different files, but as explained before, system takes precedence over
> user profiles, so there's no need to generate at most two files.
> 
> You would then deploy the files to the target Windows systems, and in a shell with administrative privileges,
> run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above commands generate four different files, but as explained before, system takes precedence over user profiles, so there's only need to generate at most two files.

You would then deploy the files to the target Windows systems, and in a shell with administrative privileges run the command:
```

```bash
reg import FILENAME
```

## Troubleshooting

> System profiles are loaded only when there is no `settings.json` in the config area - so these typically are
> loaded only on first-run and after a factory-reset.
> 
> Locked profiles are loaded at the start of every run, and take precedence over the values in existing `settings.json` files
> (which means a crafty user can't shut down Rancher Desktop and manually edit the `settings.json` file to get around
> the locked-deployment-profile restrictions).
> 
> ###
> 
> Running reg.exe - registry entries under the `Policies` key can only be loaded with the `reg import` command
> when the user is running as an administrator.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
System profiles are loaded only when there is no `settings.json` in the config area - so these typically are loaded only on first-run and after a factory-reset.

Locked profiles are loaded at the start of every run, and take precedence over the values in existing `settings.json` files (which means a crafty user can't shut down Rancher Desktop and manually edit the `settings.json` file to get around the locked-deployment-profile restrictions).

### Running `reg.exe`

Running `reg.exe` - registry entries under the `Policies` key can only be loaded with the `reg import` command when the user is running as an administrator.

```
